Add `Moscow osu! Event 2025 Recap` news post (#13778)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-09-30-moscow-osu-event-2025-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "Moscow osu! Event 2025 Recap"
date: 2025-09-30 14:00:00 +0000
---

The third iteraton of Moscow osu! Event, the largest osu! event in Russia, took place between July, 25-27th, featuring a total of 5 tournaments for each gamemode, a cosplay défilé and more!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-09-30-moscow-osu-event-2025-recap/moe25-banner.jpg)

This year’s Moscow osu! Event took place at Mosproducer, a concert hall situated in the center of Moscow, the capital of Russia.

# Activities recap
### Cosplay défilé
A cosplay défilé was organised during the event, allowing anyone to show themselves as their favourite (or funny) character.
All participants' cosplays were also judged by event organisers, choosing these works as the best ones:

> 1st place - ::{ flag=RU }:: **myfk** cosplaying Rin Kaenbyou from Touhou Project. Her ribbon show during défilé shocked everyone, immediately proving that she deserves that first place

Reviewer: I also think you should somehow put emphasis on the places -- try **1st place** etc?

1 (::{ flag=RU }:: [Skrowell](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9694263)) for their results on #russian osu! cup 2024, 1 (::{ flag=RU }:: [Welter](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11552867)) for their results on #russian osu! cup klassic '25, 4 (::{ flag=RU }:: [11iq pleer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/13206785), ::{ flag=RU }:: [BJIADOC](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17031854), ::{ flag=RU }:: [fedotoff](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7351448) & ::{ flag=RU }:: [GodRoPoNiKa](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11195861)) from the Closed Qualifier, and 2 (::{ flag=KZ }:: [nejzha](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8105138) & ::{ flag=BY }:: [Vudek](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8816345)) as Wildcard Invites!
The tournament had a single-elimination bracket and began from Round of 16.

### Match highlights:

### ::{ flag=RU }:: [BJIADOC](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17031854) vs. ::{ flag=RU }:: [Lexu2S](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8251785) 

> **[You can view the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/118776739)**\
> **[You can view the match VOD here!](https://youtu.be/dR9aCY2Bq4w?si=VWFEB4ohQAst7xqj&t=2870)**

Reviewer: IMO making the titles a bit more informative would be better (goes for the rest of the newspost as well)
```suggestion
**Match log: [MOE2025: (BJIADOC) vs (Lexu2S)](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/118776739)**\
**Match VOD: [MOE2025 Day 1 — 47:11](https://youtu.be/dR9aCY2Bq4w?si=VWFEB4ohQAst7xqj&t=2870)**
```

### ::{ flag=RU }:: [Skrowell](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9694263) vs ::{ flag=RU }:: [Welter](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11552867)

**[You can view the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/118799095)**\
**[You can view the match VOD here!](https://youtu.be/fIpS-LFpB7w?si=qcziZXmLM-eatEO2&t=35337)**

The final match of the tournament. ::{ flag=RU }:: [Welter](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11552867), being the runner-up for the last 2 iterations of MOE, now gets a third chance to win the tournament. And even though ::{ flag=RU }:: [Skrowell](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9694263) was not getting this far before and actually losing to ::{ flag=RU }:: [Welter](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11552867) last year, he still has high chances to win this tournament as well.

The first half of the match went pretty straightforward: both players were easily taking their picks up until the score of 3-3. After that, something went wrong and 3 breakpoints have happened in a row, getting the score to 4-5. The last map was picked by ::{ flag=RU }:: [Welter](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11552867) and won by him as well!

> With a score of 6-4, ::{ flag=RU }:: [Welter](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11552867) have won Moscow osu! Event for the first time, breaking his 2nd place curse. His performance during the whole tournament was very astonishing, making him one of the best Russian players with a no doubt!

Reviewer: it's a bit wordy.. is there something specific about the match that'd warrant it? I'm not sure how to explain myself better, but it reads less like a newspost fragment and more a livestream transcript. my recommendation would be chopping it down, maybe to a half of its size

Author: > it's a bit wordy.. is there something specific about the match that'd warrant it? I'm not sure how to explain myself better, but it reads less like a newspost fragment and more a livestream transcript. my recommendation would be chopping it down, maybe to a half of its size

osu!std tournament was the main and most viewed part of the event so that's why we paid such attention to this part in the article.

![Tournament winner (Welter)](/wiki/shared/news/2025-09-30-moscow-osu-event-2025-recap/welter_prize.jpg)

# Other tournaments

> Besides the main gamemode, there were also the LAN Tournaments for other gamemodes, with osu!mania being separated to 4K and 7K. All matches were played live on the stage as well! All tournaments had a single-elimination bracket and began from the Semifinals.

Reviewer: IMO this has better structure, with the most important bit finishing the paragraph

```suggestion
Game modes other than osu! also had their share of LAN tournaments, with osu!mania separated to 4K and 7K. All tournaments began from the Semifinals, had a single-elimination bracket, and were played live on the stage as well!
```

### osu!taiko

> The osu!taiko Tournament featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [\_TheXFactory\_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15013948), ::{ flag=RU }:: [Den4ik228](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7115174), ::{ flag=RU }:: [SceptifyMK](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/20843003) and ::{ flag=RU }:: [taikoshallah](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11117835). All of them were playing the [osu!taiko World Cup 2025](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/TWC/2025) for the Russian Federation team!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The osu!taiko tournament featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [\_TheXFactory\_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15013948), ::{ flag=RU }:: [Den4ik228](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7115174), ::{ flag=RU }:: [SceptifyMK](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/20843003), and ::{ flag=RU }:: [taikoshallah](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11117835) from the Russian Federation team of the [osu!taiko World Cup 2025](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/TWC/2025).
```

> ### Matches summary

Reviewer: dunno if it is more correct here, cc @Walavouchey for a second opinion
```suggestion
### Match summary
```

| Player A |  |  | Player B | VOD link | 
| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- | :-: |
| [Den4ik228](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7115174) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 0 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[\_TheXFactory\_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15013948)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/xatn-BXpMho?si=gQGPyNmAHo_k-8Az&t=26269) |
| [SceptifyMK](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/20843003) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 1 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[taikoshallah](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11117835)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/fIpS-LFpB7w?si=4Pd0zBTT5TUVdGMg&t=254) |
| [\_TheXFactory\_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15013948) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 0 | **5** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[taikoshallah](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11117835)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/fIpS-LFpB7w?si=ihqWHhbioNrlpip4&t=31432) |

### osu!catch

> The osu!catch Tournaments featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [BocDyx](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7926192), ::{ flag=RU }:: [snailbrack](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6650048), ::{ flag=RU }:: [smelly DVD box](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6647589) and, _uh... a player under the name \~R\~_?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The osu!catch tournaments featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [BocDyx](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7926192), ::{ flag=RU }:: [snailbrack](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6650048), ::{ flag=RU }:: [smelly DVD box](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6647589), and, _uh... a player under the name \~R\~_?
```

> To make things a little more interesting, the fourth player for that tournament was kept in secret until their first match. It turned out that this player was actually ::{ flag=RU }:: [ThankYou](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4571241), one of the hosts of the event!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make things a little more interesting, the fourth player for that tournament was kept in secret until their first match. It turned out they were ::{ flag=RU }:: [ThankYou](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4571241), one of the hosts of the event!
```

### Matches summary
| Player A |  |  | Player B | VOD link | 
| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- | :-: |
| **[BocDyx](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7926192)** ::{ flag=RU }:: | **4** | 0 | ::{ flag=RU }:: [ThankYou](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4571241) | [#1](https://youtu.be/xatn-BXpMho?si=mXNeScPuG-UrhzKu&t=4622) |
| [snailbrack](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6650048) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 1 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[smelly DVD box](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6647589)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/xatn-BXpMho?si=zMqKjp488djoDLyY&t=7055) |
| [BocDyx](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7926192) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 2 | **5** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[smelly DVD box](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6647589)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/fIpS-LFpB7w?si=jdLJL6NSXWgta_dQ&t=5953) |

### osu!mania 4K

> The osu!mania 4K Tournament featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [-Oni-Chan-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10036005), ::{ flag=RU }:: [Dystire](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11585213), ::{ flag=RU }:: [kloofhi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/29627572) and ::{ flag=RU }:: [VikaGamer228](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/20049082). Two of these players were playing the [osu!mania 4K World Cup 2024](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/MWC/2024_4K)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The osu!mania 4K tournament featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [-Oni-Chan-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10036005), ::{ flag=RU }:: [Dystire](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11585213), ::{ flag=RU }:: [kloofhi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/29627572), and ::{ flag=RU }:: [VikaGamer228](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/20049082), two of which were in the [osu!mania 4K World Cup 2024](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/MWC/2024_4K)!
```

### Matches summary
| Player A |  |  | Player B | VOD link |
| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- | :-: |
| **[Dystire](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11585213)** ::{ flag=RU }:: | **4** | 0 | ::{ flag=RU }:: [VikaGamer228](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/20049082) | [#1](https://youtu.be/LzItzsD4nH0?si=7_QiOYSxjuCsEP9J&t=3745) |
| [kloofhi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/29627572) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 2 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[-Oni-Chan-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10036005)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/LzItzsD4nH0?si=wbMCtw5I7Oky3HnG&t=6429) |
| **[Dystire](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11585213)** ::{ flag=RU }:: | **5** | 1 | ::{ flag=RU }:: [-Oni-Chan-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10036005) | [#1](https://youtu.be/fIpS-LFpB7w?si=7nuxuyU9vzfVs8x2&t=2811) |

### osu!mania 7K

> The osu!mania 7K Tournament featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [karayss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7156634), ::{ flag=RU }:: [PhobosX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2570019), ::{ flag=RU }:: [timebuka](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6857841) and ::{ flag=RU }:: [X_Devil](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6694908). Two of these players were playing the [osu!mania 7K World Cup 2025](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/MWC/2025_7K)!!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The osu!mania 7K tournament featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [karayss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7156634), ::{ flag=RU }:: [PhobosX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2570019), ::{ flag=RU }:: [timebuka](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6857841), and ::{ flag=RU }:: [X_Devil](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6694908); two of them were in the [osu!mania 7K World Cup 2025](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Tournaments/MWC/2025_7K)!!
```

### Matches summary
| Player A |  |  | Player B | VOD link |
| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- | :-: |
| [PhobosX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2570019) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 0 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[karayss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7156634)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/xatn-BXpMho?si=zvoQEqysGk8LdfF9&t=19017) |
| [X_Devil](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6694908) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 3 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[timebuka](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6857841)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/xatn-BXpMho?si=s6pxmtqLG7EN_N02&t=22857) |
| [karayss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7156634) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 4 | **5** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[timebuka](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6857841)** | [#1](https://youtu.be/fIpS-LFpB7w?si=jr-1rOcViRSAGrm6&t=13209) |

> _Fun fact: the osu!mania 7K Tournament had more matches that went to Tiebreaker than all other gamemodes together (including standard)_

Reviewer: we use asterisks for italics
```suggestion
*Fun fact: the osu!mania 7K tournament had more tiebreaker matches than all other game modes combined, including osu!.*
```

---

> More than **450** people have visited Moscow osu! Event 2025, with **51** individual contributors and staff members making sure everything goes smooth! We are very thankful for everyone taking part in it and hope that the next iterations will be even bigger and more fun! Make sure to follow Moscow osu! Event's [Discord server](https://discord.gg/moscowosuevent), [Twitter](https://x.com/moscowosuevent), [Telegram](https://t.me/moscowosuevent) or [VK](https://vk.com/moscowosuevent) so you don't miss the next iteration!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More than **450** people visited Moscow osu! Event 2025, with **51** individual contributors and staff members making sure everything goes smooth. We are very grateful to all participants and hope that next iterations will be even bigger and bring even more fun! Make sure to follow Moscow osu! Event's [Discord server](https://discord.gg/moscowosuevent), [Twitter](https://x.com/moscowosuevent), [Telegram](https://t.me/moscowosuevent), or [VK](https://vk.com/moscowosuevent), so that you don't miss the next iteration!
```
too many exclamations (also not sure what to replace the last "iteration" with -- maybe "gathering"?)

![MOE2025 Attendees megacollab](/wiki/shared/news/2025-09-30-moscow-osu-event-2025-recap/megacollab.jpg)

> —Rainbowtaves & RobotSkin_

Reviewer: a lone `_` probably still requires escaping

```suggestion
—Rainbowtaves & RobotSkin\_
```

### osu!mania 7K

The osu!mania 7K tournament featured ::{ flag=RU }:: [karayss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7156634), ::{ flag=RU }:: [PhobosX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2570019), ::{ flag=RU }:: [timebuka](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6857841), and ::{ flag=RU }:: [X_Devil](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6694908); two of them were in the [osu!mania 7K World Cup 2025](/wiki/Tournaments/MWC/2025_7K)!!

| Player A |  |  | Player B | VOD link |
| --: | :-: | :-: | :-- | :-: |
| [PhobosX](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2570019) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 0 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[karayss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7156634)** | [#1](https://youtube.com/watch?v=xatn-BXpMho&t=19017) |
| [X_Devil](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6694908) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 3 | **4** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[timebuka](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6857841)** | [#1](https://youtube.com/watch?v=xatn-BXpMho&t=22857) |
| [karayss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7156634) ::{ flag=RU }:: | 4 | **5** | ::{ flag=RU }:: **[timebuka](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6857841)** | [#1](https://youtube.com/watch?v=fIpS-LFpB7w&t=13209) |

*Fun fact: the osu!mania 7K tournament had more tiebreaker matches than all other game modes combined, including osu!.*

---

> More than **450** people visited Moscow osu! Event 2025, with **51** individual contributors and staff members making sure everything goes smooth. We are very grateful to all participants and hope that next iterations will be even bigger and bring even more fun! Make sure to follow Moscow osu! Event's [Discord server](https://discord.gg/7GJvD9uyV7), [Twitter](https://x.com/moscowosuevent), [Telegram](https://t.me/moscowosuevent), or [VK](https://vk.com/moscowosuevent), so that you don't miss the next iteration!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More than **450** people visited Moscow osu! Event 2025, with **51** individual contributors and staff members making sure everything went smoothly. We are very grateful to all participants and hope that the next iteration will be even bigger and bring even more fun! Make sure to follow Moscow osu! Event's [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/7GJvD9uyV7), [Twitter](https://x.com/moscowosuevent), [Telegram](https://t.me/moscowosuevent), or [VK](https://vk.com/moscowosuevent), so that you don't miss the next iteration!
```
